---
layout: post
title: An introduction to the author
category: slice-of-life
#tags:
year: 2015
month: 10
day: 22
published: true
---

I am Sam Gleske.  Over the years I've contributed a lot of useful content
throughout the Internet.  Finally, I've decided to go through that content and
consolidate the useful bits on this website.  I'll cover varying topics such as
Japanese Anime, Education, Engineering, Slice of Life, and any other whims I
choose.  This first post allows you, as the reader, to get to know me a bit.

The first family computer I used was the [IBM PC AT][wiki-pcat]
[80286][wiki-80286] which had a little turbo button on it to make it go faster.
It was running [Windows 3.1][wiki-win31] on top of [DOS][wiki-dos] and to get
the graphical environment you would type `win` after booting up.  I remember my
father doing taxes on it; playing games with us kids such as [Indy 500][indy]
and [Chip's Challenge][chips].  It had a 3.5" and 5.25" floppy drive (it was
actually floppy).  It was accidentally thrown out while I was away at college.
It would have been cool to donate it to a museum because it was in perfect
working condition.  That and I liked the games.

Fast forward a few years to middle school.  I built my first website probably
around 1999.  I was a drummer in a band of two kids (Donnie Crabtree and I) who
liked to hang out and jam.  I thought it would be cool for the band to have a
website so I learned HTML and CSS.  The site had frames and iframes.  It was
cool and was hosted on geocities because that was a thing then.  I still
actively play drums.

Fast forward again a few years to high school.  During my Junior and Senior
year, I had a very inspirational teacher, Mr. Mark Lemieux.  In his course I
learned how to install and configure Windows 2000 Server, Windows XP, and our
little class had a domain controller in which the cluster was connected to the
DC.  We had a little RedHat 9 box in the corner that students occasionally
played with.  We learned how to troubleshoot hardware, implement and install
physical networking, we made drops and patch cables, and the school occasionally
farmed us out for a little child labor when minor computer problems would arise
in different departments.  I also have fond memories of the students taking
breaks to play Red Alert 2 in 4v4 matches.  I learned my first programming
language in my spare time: JavaScript.  I learned it not from a book, but
reading thousands of samples I found on the Internet viewing the source of web
pages.  Every time I saw a cool feature I would try to download all the source
and implement just that feature in JavaScript just to see if I could get it to
work.  I learned programming by inferring it's meaning from the plethora of
samples I viewed on websites.  Poking and prodding, witnessing what happened
when I changed the code around and reading terribly formed error messages in
IE6.  It was a fun experience and I attribute my entire career and passion for
computers to this time period.  Thanks Mr. Lemieux.

The college years.  In High School, I learned about computer software and a bit
about the hardware.  Now my passion leaned toward learning how to design them.
Computer Engineering seemed like a logical choice for me.  I did a random
internet search for top Computer Engineering schools in the country.  Whatever
list I was reading had Drexel University listed as #1.  It was the only school I
applied to and I got in.  Good thing, because I put all of my eggs in one basket
without much thought for the consequences.  I proceeded on a colorful journey of
open source exploration and a Renaissance of learning.  I learned around 20 or
30 different programming languages outside of my normal coursework.  This
passion for learning caused my normal school curriculum to suffer.  Eventually I
fell back to working full time and being a part-time student.  To this day, I'm
slowly creeping towards graduation one course at a time.

I am currently an Engineer at Comcast.  Comcast is a great place to work and if
you're an Engineer who is extended an offer I highly encourage you to consider
it.  I build and support a continuous delivery pipeline for Comcast Technology &
Product.  I maintain scalable infrastructure and regularly solve challenging
problems my colleagues and I encounter.  The services I build and support touch
millions of clients and consume billions of requests every month.  I try to
instill my passion for learning in others and openly share information wherever
possible.  This includes presenting inside and outside of Comcast, [writing open
source software][gh-my], and heavily contributing to documentation inside and
out of the company.  I am the buildmaster for the GIMP project [Jenkins
instance][jenkins-gimp]; the maintainer of the [Slack Jenkins
Plugin][jenkins-slack] and [GitHub OAuth Jenkins Plugin][jenkins-gh-oauth]; and
contribute to a few dozen open source projects in my spare time.  I regularly
contribute time to helping other Linux users by posting at
[LinuxQuestions.org][lq].  I also enjoy reading technical manuals and playing
games in my spare time.  My parents are awe-inspiring.  I have two brothers and
a sister; all are successful.  I have a wonderful fiancé.  I am a fortunate man.

[chips]: http://www.abandonia.com/en/games/410/Chips+Challenge.html
[gh-my]: https://github.com/samrocketman
[indy]: http://www.abandonia.com/en/games/897/Indianapolis+500+-+The+Simulation.html
[jenkins-gh-oauth]: https://github.com/jenkinsci/github-oauth-plugin
[jenkins-gimp]: https://build.gimp.org/
[jenkins-slack]: https://github.com/jenkinsci/slack-plugin
[lq]: http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/user/sag47-492023/
[wiki-80286]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_80286
[wiki-dos]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_operating_system
[wiki-pcat]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_Personal_Computer/AT
[wiki-win31]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_3.1x
