---
layout: post
title: 2020 Playing Rust on Linux (Facepunch game)
category: gaming
tags:
 - gaming
 - WINE
year: 2020
month: 07
day: 12
published: true
type: markdown
---

* TOC
{:toc}

# TL;DR Summary

- I will occasionally update this post over time.
- You can run the dedicated server and Rust client on the same computer for
  local play using SteamPlay on Linux.
- The dedicated server must have EAC disabled.
- You must connect to the server from the  Rust client by pressing `F1` key and
  using `client.connect <ip address>:28015`.

> **Warning:** Putting your local server on the Internet is not recommended with
> EAC disabled (anti-cheat).  I only recommend this for local LAN play by
> yourself or LAN with friends.

This guide was last tested with the Modular Vehicles Update (July 2, 2020).  I
do not have Sunburn DLC.

# Background

Ever since Facepunch [stopped supporting their Linux client][fp-drop-linux],
I've been hungry to play.  I'm one of the few people who played on Linux,
enjoyed the game, and didn't get a refund.

I regularly browse [ProtonDB for Rust][protondb] in the hopes that a Rust update
gets a platinum rating with EAC working for online multiplayer with Windows and
Mac players.  However, until then I noticed people were rating that gameplay
works with EAC disabled.

I had an itch to scratch for playing Rust and this is my solution.

### My system specs

* OS: Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS
* Hardware that's relevant for Rust and Linux:
  * Intel Core i7
  * 32GB RAM
  * ASRock Radeon RX 5700 XT (AMD GPU)
  * SSD hard drive

# Audience

I'm going to assume you know your way around Linux and the Terminal.  For now,
it's late and I just got this working.  I may expand this post over time to be
more beginner friendly.  For now, this "guide" is for more advanced users.

# Installing Rust and dedicated server

Install Steam, [SteamCMD][steamcmd] (`sudo apt-get install steamcmd`), and
[enable SteamPlay for all games][enable-steamplay].

Install Rust for Windows from Steam normally; on my computer it ends up in the
following install locaion.

    ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Rust

Install Rust Dedicated Server for Windows.  Run `steamcmd` and enter the
following commands.

    @sSteamCmdForcePlatformType windows
    login anonymous
    app_update 258550 validate
    quit

The dedicated server ends up in the following location by default.  All
following instructions assume defaults.

    ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/rust_dedicated

# Determine your Proton version

Open Rust and let it sit on the main menu.  Alt+tab away and open a terminal to
inspect all Rust processes.

```bash
ps aux | grep Rust.exe
```

It should return  output similar to the following.

```bash
user      25989  0.0  0.0  63632 24768 tty2     S+   20:42   0:00 /bin/sh -c '/home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton 5.0'/proton waitforexitandrun '/home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Rust/Rust.exe' -logfile "output_log.txt"
user      25990  0.0  0.0  90504 16472 tty2     S+   20:42   0:00 python3 /home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton 5.0/proton waitforexitandrun /home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Rust/Rust.exe -logfile output_log.txt
user      25997  0.0  0.0 1818696 19924 tty2    Sl+  20:42   0:00 steam /home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Rust/Rust.exe -logfile output_log.txt
```

I noticed that I'm running `Proton 5.0`.  The command for how Rust is launched
is important for later.  Take note the following.

```
/home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton 5.0/proton waitforexitandrun /home/user/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Rust/Rust.exe -logfile output_log.txt
```

# Launching dedicated server

The following is a script for launching the dedicated server.   Please note,
this script uses the same Proton version as Rust determined previously.

Create a script in the directory of your choice named `rust_ds.sh` with the
following contents.  The server `output_log.txt` and `rcon_pass` (password for
remote console administration) will also show up in the directory.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Launches Rust Dedicated Server for Windows on Linux
# Usage:
#   ./rust_ds.sh

set -e

STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH="$HOME"/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/compatdata/258550
STEAM_COMPAT_CLIENT_INSTALL_PATH="$HOME"/.local/share/Steam
export STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH STEAM_COMPAT_CLIENT_INSTALL_PATH

mkdir -p "$STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH"

export SCRIPT_DIR="${PWD}"

# generate a random password from /dev/urandom
function rand_password() {
  tr -dc -- '-.~,<>[]{}@%()_+=0-9a-zA-Z' < /dev/urandom | head -c16;echo
}

if [ ! -f rcon_pass ]; then
  touch rcon_pass
  chmod 600 rcon_pass
  rand_password > rcon_pass
fi

cd ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/rust_dedicated

~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/'Proton 5.0'/proton \
  waitforexitandrun \
  "$HOME"/.steam/steam/steamapps/common/rust_dedicated/RustDedicated.exe \
    -batchmode -logfile "${SCRIPT_DIR}"/output_log.txt \
    +server.secure 0 +server.encryption 0 +server.eac 0 \
    +rcon.web 1 +rcon.port 28016 \
    +rcon.password "$(< "${SCRIPT_DIR}"/rcon_pass)"
```

The important part from above are the Rust options for disabling EAC.

* `+server.secure 0`
* `+server.encryption 0`
* `+server.eac 0`

# Play Rust

Rust will crash if you attempt to browse the server list.  So do not click
"Play".  Instead, do the following.

1. Press `F1` to open command menu.
2. Type in `client.connect 127.0.0.1:28015`.

# Admin your server

In the directory where `rust_ds.sh` script is located you'll find the
`rcon_pass` file.  This contains the password used for remote console
administration (RCON).

Visit the Facepunch [web-based websockets client][rcon-client] you can use
locally for connecting to your server.

Log in to your server:

- Address: `127.0.0.1:28016`
- Password: found in `rcon_pass` file.

Here's some helpful administration guides.

- [RUST Item List – Shortnames, IDs, Descriptions 2020][admin-rust-items]
- [RUST Admin Commands List 2020][admin-con-com-2020]

And more links

- [Admin Commands Cheat Sheet - Rustafied.com][admin-cheatsheet] (Google
  Doc)
- [Rust console commands][admin-con-com]
- [Rustified useful console commands][admin-rustified]

### Initial server setup

I like running the following commands when playing solo.

    heli.bulletdamagescale 0.1
    hackablelockedcrate.decayseconds 72000
    minicopter.population 3
    minicopter.insidedecayminutes 54000
    server.updatebatch 256
    server.pve true
    server.description "Sams Linux Server"
    aimanager.ai_dormant false
    ownerid [steam 64bit id] [steam username] owner
    server.writecfg

You can get your own `steam 64bit id` by looking at the user list in RCON.

### Heavy grenade kit

Just for goofing off I decided to make myself OP and hit a bunch of NPCs with
it.  A full heavy kit with buckshot and high explosive 40mm grenade launchers.

    inventory.giveall multiplegrenadelauncher 1
    inventory.giveall multiplegrenadelauncher 1
    inventory.giveall syringe.medical 100
    inventory.giveall largemedkit 500
    inventory.giveall ammo.grenadelauncher.he 1000
    inventory.giveall ammo.grenadelauncher.buckshot 1000
    inventory.giveall heavy.plate.helmet 1
    inventory.giveall heavy.plate.jacket 1
    inventory.giveall heavy.plate.pants 1
    inventory.giveall shoes.boots 1
    inventory.giveall weapon.mod.flashlight 2
    inventory.giveall weapon.mod.holosight 2

Other

    inventory.giveall tactical.gloves 1

# Finally

I'm a pretty casual player with work-life to balance.  Expect to see more
updates on how to mod it on Linux for higher spawn rates, 10x resouces,
increased stacks, etc.  This is the first time I've opened a Rust dedicated
server so I'm new to all of this.

Here are some quality of life key bindings I enjoy.

    bind b backpack.open
    bind z forward;sprint
    bind c duck
    bind l global.teleport2marker

[admin-cheatsheet]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1n4ripoF68RDGZs28vfTwTPyQfO3pbHjr2dCovtmjgGk/edit#gid=0
[admin-con-com-2020]: https://www.corrosionhour.com/rust-admin-commands/
[admin-con-com]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iEmsQ9mZbOv3OzgQKZYhRuqSI1F6DwYM35ZMG5bSXJA/edit#gid=0
[admin-rust-items]: https://www.corrosionhour.com/rust-item-list/
[admin-rustified]: https://www.rustafied.com/useful-rust-experimental-console-commands
[enable-steamplay]: https://steamcommunity.com/app/221410/discussions/0/1734336452577465748/
[fp-drop-linux]: https://rust.facepunch.com/blog/updated-linux-plans
[protondb]: https://www.protondb.com/app/252490
[rcon-client]: http://facepunch.github.io/webrcon/
[steamcmd]: https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD
